Newly married life came with a lot
of unexpected challenges.
You dream about the way
your marriage will go,
but then the reality is quite different.
All we ever did was argue,
or we wouldn’t speak to one another.
We never ever went to the elders.
We just didn’t want to bother them.
We just felt, you know,
we needed to figure it out ourselves.
We decided that if the house sold,
then we would separate.
The separation wasn’t a good thing,
because in some respects
it made things worse.
It did have an impact on the boys.
They started acting out.
They got into some trouble
with the police one time.
And there was a loneliness
because you’ve gotten married,
and now you don’t have that,
and you’re by yourself.
And the same old routine
went on where you’re
cooking and cleaning
and doing laundry and working.
I felt sick to my stomach.
I had a hard time getting up every morning
and facing the world.
At that point, I felt that I needed
to have the elders help out a little bit.
I did pray for Jehovah’s help to direct me,
and I kept wondering
why Jehovah wasn’t really
answering my prayers.
But I kind of realize now
that it was because we were separated.
The expectations of the separation
were not at all what I was thinking.
I reflected on the marriage vows.
One of the things I thought
about was a sister in our congregation.
She was married to an unbeliever,
and then she learned the truth.
And he was so violent.
He would beat her; he would burn her books;
he would burn her clothes.
He did not allow her children
to attend the meetings.
And I thought about the problems
that Darrel and I had.
And I thought:
‘Well, Darrel is a kind person.
He’s never done that.’
And I thought:
‘You know, this is something
‘that we need to really work on.
‘We need to really put forth the effort
‘to start applying Bible principles
‘to put Jehovah first in our life
so that we can bring our marriage
back in union with Jehovah.’
I realized that it wasn’t what I wanted,
but it was what Jehovah wanted.
There was just no other choice.
Jehovah wasn’t going to bless us
unless we got back together.
When we got back together,
our marriage was still a work in progress.
You can’t have
a perfect marriage in this world,
but you can sure make it better
when you put Jehovah first.
We enjoyed the feelings
we had toward each other.
I felt closer to Debbie.
Debbie and I
have been married now for 48 years.
Separation does not make
anything better at all.
If you even have an inkling of love
for one another,
you want to work on that,
and you want to make it bloom
so that Jehovah can bless it.
The blessings have been endless.
Our children are all doing
fantastic in the truth.
Jehovah said:
“Taste and see that [He] is good.”
So we’ve got to do that.